The AWS Certified Database ‑ Specialty exam separates the content into the
following five domains: workload‑specific database design,
deployment and migration, management and operations,
monitoring and troubleshooting, and database security.
These domains are a useful way to break down the topic areas you need to
know, not only for taking the exam if you plan to certify,
but for working with AWS databases in general. These topics
help you cover the breadth of requirements to consider as you
implement database solutions.
We'll go into more detail on each domain in this course, then individual
courses on different database offerings will cover specifics for
implementations in each database service. For example,
I'll cover database security concepts, then in the RDS course,
you'll see how to implement security in RDS. Then in the DynamoDB
course, you'll see implementation options for security in DynamoDB,
and so on for each covered service.
Domain one, workload‑specific database design.
This domain has the following objectives: select appropriate database
services for specific types of data and workloads, determine strategies for
disaster recovery and high availability, design database solutions for
performance, compliance, and scalability, compare the costs of database
solutions. These objectives get into knowing everything about everything in
order to select the appropriate database service or services to use based on
the type of data involved and other implementation requirements, such as
performance, compliance, scalability, and cost.
These objectives will help you know the breadth of services and their
different capabilities so you can design the best possible solution.
Domain two, deployment and migration.
This domain covers the following objectives:
automate database solution deployments,
determine data preparation and migration strategies,
execute and validate data migration. Automation is an
important way to reduce deployment time,
increase repeatability, and eliminate mistakes as you deploy database solutions.
Using tools like CloudFormation can help you develop robust
automation with AWS database deployments.
As systems first move to the cloud or evolve within the cloud,
you'll find that you need to perform a fair amount of data preparation,
migration, and validation, so understanding best practices
and available tools for those tasks is an important part of
being a database specialist.
Domain three, management and operations This domain is all
about keeping things up and running,
as well as having the appropriate backup and restore
strategies in place when failures occur.
Objectives for this domain are: determine maintenance tasks and
processes, determine backup and restore strategies, manage the
operational environment of a database solution. Domain four, monitoring
and troubleshooting, has the following objectives: determine monitoring
and alerting strategies, troubleshoot and resolve common database
issues, optimize database performance. Monitoring is a key part of your
database solution.
It's what allows you to measure performance, spot slowdowns and anomalies,
and alert the appropriate resources when things go wrong.
The objectives for this domain will help you be aware of common
issues for each database service, how to solve those issues, and
different options for monitoring, alerting, and optimization.
Finally,
domain five, database security. Security needs to be built into your
design and is too important to simply be an afterthought, thrown
together after everything else is working.
The security objectives cover several areas,
including encrypt data at rest and in transit, evaluate auditing solutions,
determine access control and authentication mechanisms, recognize potential
security vulnerabilities within database solutions. Different database
services have different options for encryption,
auditing, and access control,
so you'll need to be aware of your options in order to meet any
specific security requirements you may have.
You can use AWS databases to implement solutions that are compliant with
several financial, privacy, and government standards.
Cloud does not equal less secure.
Another component of security is monitoring and detecting
potential threats and vulnerabilities,
and AWS has several tools to make that easier for you.
Great job! You've seen what it means to be a database specialist,
including the breadth and depth of knowledge needed to design,
deploy, and maintain database solutions that meet multiple constraints.
You've covered the domains and objectives for the AWS
Certified Database ‑ Specialty exam,
which helped organize the different topics where you'll dive in
deeper to gain the skills you need to implement real‑world
scenarios. Join me in the next module where you'll get an
overview of each AWS database service, including the types of data and use cases they're designed to handle.